# Day 8-10

Unfortunately I did not have time to make dev diary entries for day 8 and day 9 so they are bundled up in this entry.

## What did I accomplish? 

Basicly the rest of the application, which included frontend test, e2e tests, the rest of the UI and uploading the backend with built UI to heroku. I also added documentation and commented code on parts that I felt like needed some explanations. 

## What went well?

These few last days have been overall successful. Implementation of frontend and e2e tests went really well. Beforehand I thought I would struggle with them more than I did. I also managed to track down some bugs with the tests, so they were really beneficial. 

## What went poorly?

Unfortunately my frontend tests are a bit lacking, since I would have needed to refactor many parts to make them easier and more meaningful to test. I unfortunately did not have the time for that. I tried to compensate this by duing more e2e tests.

There is also a bug in the frontend. If you login and view metric data, then logout and login with different user, fetching metric data with the same metric will briefly show the previous data. I unfortunately did not have time to fix this, since I thought logout would reset the state properly, which it clearly does not. I found this bug out really late to the project.

## Reflection on the whole project

Considering that this is my first FullStack project that I have done indpendently, it went well and I am happy about the final product. I had some struggles especially with TypeScript and MongoDB, but I managed to push through the issues. The issues were the most educational, since I had to dig deeper how TypeScript and MongoDB work.

### What I would have wanted to do better or implement?

I am not all that happy with the test coverage and when the test were implemented. All tests were pretty much done after everything was implemented, which is not ideal. Test are the most beneficial when things are changing, since they check if the new impelentation works as expected. Doing the tests after everything is done, will only find problems with the current implementation, but do not grant any benefit with checking the functionality of new implementations, since everything is done already. 

I would have wanted to do more refactoring. There are parts that could be easier to understand if they were refactored, for example setting the token authorization in the frontend could be refactored. Refactoring error handling to a middleware in the backend would also make the code cleaner. 

I would have wanted to implement adding users from the frontend. I just did not have the time for it. It would have not been too hard, but I had to save time somehow. Fortunately you can add new users from the backend using for example, postman. 

UML diagrams and better architecture documentation are also missing. I would have wanted to do them, but due to time restrictions I did not. This is unfortunately, since I can not show wider range of skills.

### What I am happy about the project?

I am really happy how the UI turned out. I was baffled how smoothly the UI implementation went. In the past I haven't been the best with UI code, but this time it went way better and made way cleaner UI. I will definitely use Material UI in the future.

I am glad about the mistakes I made. All the mistakes during the project have been very educational. I am happy that I persisted through the mistakes and wanted to figure out things by myself. It really has made this project feel more fun and engaging. 

I am also happy that I made the choice to make these diary entries. At the beginning I thought that this is a way to show the employer my skills as a learner: my ability to reflect my actions and learn from them. But this has been more than that. The diaries have been a way to schedule things better and actively think about what I am doing and what is important. They have prevented me from getting stuck with the project and has made the learning more efficent. Even in the case that I would not land a job, I would be really happy that I made this project and decided to challenge myself. It really has proven that I like developing software and it has given me many imporant lessons.